[THUNDER RUMBLES]
[THUNDERCLAP]
[MOTOR WHIRRING]
- [MOTOR STOPS]
- [SHOUTING] See how it's done?
- Yeah, I think I got the hang of it.
- You better.
Boss'll chew my head off
if these cores get messed up.
Don't worry.
We're at 26 feet.
You let Jason
operate the drill?
Yeah, he can
handle it.
[MOTOR SLOWS, STOPS]
[CRUNCHING]
[CRACKING]
I didn't do
anything!
Gimme your hand!
Let go of the drill!
Forget it, Jack!
It's too late!
You're not
gonna make it!
Jack!
Gimme your hand!
[YELLING]
I got you!
[ALL SHOUTING]
- What were you thinking?
- [SIGHS]
- What's happening?
- The whole damn shelf is breaking off!
That's
what's happening!
[CRACKING, RUMBLING CONTINUE]
JACK: What we have found
locked in these ice cores...
is evidence of a cataclysmic
climate shift...
which occurred around
10,000 years ago.
The concentration of these natural
greenhouse gases in the ice cores...
indicates that runaway warming
pushed the planet into an ice age...
which lasted two centuries.
- [SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]
- I'm confused.
I thought you were talking
about global warming, not an ice age.
Yes, it is a paradox, but global warming
can trigger a cooling trend.
Let me explain.
The northern hemisphere owes its temperate
climate to the North Atlantic current.
Heat from the sun arrives at the equator
and is carried north by the ocean.
But global warming is melting the polar
ice caps and disrupting this flow.
Eventually,
it will shut down.
And when that occurs,
there goes our warm climate.
Excuse me. When do you think
this could happen, Professor?
- When?
- I don't know.
Maybe in a hundred years.
Maybe in a thousand.
But what I do know is
that if we do not act soon...
it is our children and our grandchildren
who will have to pay the price.
And who's going to pay
the price of the Kyoto Accord?
It would cost the world's economy
hundreds of billions of dollars.
With all due respect,
M r. Vice President...
the cost of doing nothing
could be even higher.
Our climate is fragile.
At the rate we're burning fossil fuels
and polluting the environment...
the ice caps
will soon disappear.
Professor, um, Hall...
our economy is every bit
as fragile as the environment.
Perhaps you should keep that in mind before
making sensationalist claims.
Well, the last chunk of ice
that broke off...
was about the size
of the state of Rhode Island.
Some people might call that
pretty sensational.
[MEN CHUCKLING]
[PEOPLE SHOUTING]
Stop global warming!
MAN: I'm here at the Global Warming
Conference in New Delhi...
where, if you can believe
your eyes, it's snowing.
The coldest weather
on record...
has thrown the city into chaos
with numbers of homeless people...
Taxi! Taxi!
I enjoyed your testimony, Professor.
It was very spirited.
Oh, thank you. It's what we're here for,
right? Put on a good show?
Quite. Uh, I was wondering
if I could talk to you...
about your theory
on abrupt climate shift.
The name's Rapson.
Terry Rapson.
- Professor Rapson? Of the Hedland Center?
- That's me.
I've read your work
on ocean currents.
- What do you say to a spot of tea?
- Absolutely.
- If we can hail a cab.
- Oh.
[LOUD WHISTLE]
Over here!
- [THUNDER RUMBLING]
- [BELL CLANGING]
- MAN: Welcome back to Glasgow, Scotland...
- [BEEPING]
Where Manchester United
leads 3-1 over hometown Celtic...
- [MAN SNORING]
- in this pivotal champions' league match.
We return to the action 63 minutes
into the second half...
as Manchester United looks
to put the game out of reach.
[SNORING LOUDER]
Let's get back to our commentator,
Donald MacFarland.
What? Yeah.
I-I just closed
my eyes for a sec, man.
- Yeah.
- Baby kept us awake all night.
Leads to Roy,
and still!
Yeah!
- [BEEPING CONTINUES]
- [COMMENTATOR CONTINUES, INDISTINCT]
Dennis, NOMAD buoy 4311
is showing a temperature drop...
of 13 degrees.
- Hmm? Where is 4311?
- Well, it's, uh...
Georges Bank.
Oh, it's rough seas out there.
Must've knocked it about.
- [SHEEP BLEATING]
- [GULLS SQUAWKING]
[TELEVISION CHATTER CONTINUES]
Kick the bloody ball!
Come on! Come on. Kick it.
- Kick it! Kick it!
- Are the lads winning?
Hello, Professor.
How was India?
You know what these
scientific gatherings are.
- All dancing girls, wine and parties.
- [MEN CHUCKLING]
- [THUNDERCLAP]
- [ANNOUNCEMENT IN JAPANESE]
[ANNOUNCEMENT CONTINUES]
- [SIRENS CHIRPING]
- [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
- [CELL PHONE RINGING]
- [WOMAN ON PHONE SPEAKING JAPANESE]
- [SPEAKING JAPANESE]
[WOMAN CONTINUES]
[PEOPLE SCREAMING]
[GROANS]
WOMAN: The fury of Hurricane Noelani
stunned weather experts yesterday...
- slamming into the unprepared island chain...
- [PHONE RINGING]
With a cataclysmic force
never before witnessed.
- Meteorologists already believe this...
- [RINGING CONTINUES]
To be the strongest
hurricane ever recorded...
- a storm that will surely...
- Are you gonna get that?
- Hello?
- I just saw that Sam got an "F" in Calculus.
I'm aware, Jack.
I get a copy of his report card, too.
Well... Sam is a straight "A" student.
He doesn't fail classes.
All right. I don't have time to talk
about this right now.
JACK:
Well, maybe you oughta make time.
Excuse me. I'm not the one who's away
for months and months at a time.
[SIGHS]
I just don't understand.
I'll let him explain it to you. Can you
take him to the airport in the morning?
Sam's getting
on a plane?
He joined the scholastic decathlon team.
They're competing in New York.
- Sam joined a team?
- Yeah, I think there's a girl involved.
- Oh.
- Look. Can you pick him up at 8:30?
I gotta go,
'cause I'm on call tonight.
Jack, please don't be late. I don't want him
to have to take a taxi again.
All right. Okay.
I'll be there. Okay?
I'll be there.
[SIGHS]
WOMAN: [ON P.A.] I This morning's
weather staff meeting has been moved...
to level4, conference room "B."
[WOMAN CONTINUES, INDISTINCT]
Jack!
I know you have an innate talent for
rubbing people the wrong way, Jack...
but why, for the love of God,
would you aggravate the vice president?
Because my 17-year-old kid
knows more science than he does.
Perhaps, but your 17-year-old kid
does not control our budget.
- It doesn't matter if he hates you.
- My son doesn't hate me.
You're missing the point.
What I'm trying to tell you is that...
- if Raymond Becker pulls our budget... Where...
- Oh, shit!
Jack!
[HORN BEEPING]
- Oh, my God.
- [HORN BEEPING]
- Hi, Sam. I'm sorry I'm late.
- Dad, it's fine.
- The cab's already here.
- That's okay. I'll take care of it.
- What are you gonna...
- Here you go.
JACK:
I'm not angry. I'm disappointed.
- SAM: Do you wanna hear myside of it?
- How can there be two sides?
I got every question right
on the final.
The only reason Mr. Spengler failed me was
'cause I didn't write out the solutions.
Why not?
- I do 'em in my head.
- Did you tell him that?
I did.
He didn't believe me.
He said that if he can't do them in his head,
then I must be cheating.
Well, that's ridiculous! How could he
fail you for being smarter than he is?
That's what I said.
You did?
- How'd he take it?
- He flunked me, remember?
Oh. Yeah.
Sam, I'm sorry.
I jumped to conclusions.
I'm gonna call this guy,
have a word with him.
We're gonna get this whole thing
straightened out.
- Don't worry about it.
- Sam!
Sam!
MAN:
Parker, this is Houston.
We're seeing some bad weather
over Canaveral.
Doesn't look like
you're coming back this week.
[CHUCKLES]
Your wife's gonna give me an earful.
Roger that.
MAN #2:
Hey, come take a look at this storm system.
It's enormous.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
[THUNDERCLAP]
You all right?
He's afraid of flying.
I'm fine.
[P.A. DINGS]
You know, statistically...
the chance of a plane going down because of
turbulence is less than, what? One in a billion?
Or is it a million?
- I can't remember if it's a million...
- Shut up, Brian.
Listen, Sam.
Don't pay attention to him, okay?
Everything's fine.
They're still serving drinks.
- [P.A. DINGS]
- MAN: Folks, it appears we're gonna...
have a little bit of a bumpy ride here
for the next few minutes.
Please fasten your seat belts
and put your tray tables and seat backs...
in their upright positions
until we get through this.
Thank you.
- Whoa!
- Grab it! Grab it!
WOMAN:
Watch out!
- [HYPERVENTILATING]
- [PEOPLE SHOUTING]
[ENGINES WHINING]
[ENGINES SLOW]
GIRL:
Sam?
- Sam.
- Hmm?
Can I have
my hand back?
I can't believe I'm spending two weeks
alone with my mum.
Be patient with her, all right? She's been
looking forward to this holiday for months.
- I know.
- [BOTH CHUCKLE]
- I love you.
- I love you too.
Hey. Hey, hello.
Bye-bye.
MAN: The cause of this extreme weather
remains a mystery...
although some meteorologists
believe sunspots are to blame.
This is very odd.
There's a buoy here registering
a 13 degree drop in ocean temperature.
Oh, yeah. That's right.
That buoy malfunctioned
the other day.
I'll put a call in, see if there are any ships
near Georges Bank to get it.
This buoy isn't in Georges Bank.
It's just off Greenland.
MAN:
What?
What are the odds
of two buoys failing?
Remote.
Make that three.
[HORNS HONKING]
MAN: Just another typical day
in New York City.
Traffic jam 10 blocks long.
Looky here, Buddha. These people
and their cars and their exhaust.
They're just pollutin'
the atmosphere!
Excuse me, sir.
We're really late.
- We're almost there.
- We're only two blocks away.
Let's walk.
- [BARKING]
- [BIRDS CALLING]
[BARKING]
- [ROARING]
- What's got into them?
- [ANIMALS HOWLING, CALLING]
- I have no idea. They're all worked up today.
[HOWLING]
In 1532, Spanish Conquistador
Francisco Pizarro...
defeated this Incan Emperor at the Peruvian
highland town of Cajamarca.
What is his name? Time.
- Montezuma.
- No, no.
Montezuma was in Mexico,
not Peru.
It's like
Anta something.
- Atahuallpa?
- That's it!
- [BUZZER SOUNDS]
Time's up.
Correct answers, please?
- That's five points for Woodmont...
- [CROWD CHEERING]
And five points
for Pinehurst Academy.
Next question.
In what year
did Louis Quatorze...
ascend to the throne
of France?
♪♪[POP]
This place is so retro.
- It might actually be cool if it were on purpose.
- Hmm.
And look at
all these nerds.
Hey!
Hey.
You look beautiful.
Thanks.
This place is incredible.
Do you believe that
this is their cafeteria?
You played
a great first round.
So did you.
These are my teammates,
Sam and Brian.
- I'm Laura.
- I'm J.D.
- Your school is amazing.
- Would you like... Would you like a tour?
Sure. That'd be great.
Could you hold this for a sec?
Yeah. Sure.
Thanks.
Man, you got
some serious competition.
SAM:
Please.
- I'll bet he's really rich, too.
- Shut up.
[PHONE RINGING]
- Who is it?
- Terry Rapson here. Sorry to call you so early.
No, Professor.
That's all right. What is it?
Well, we've found
something extraordinary...
extraordinary and disturbing, that is.
You recall what you said
in New Delhi...
about how polar melting might disrupt
the North Atlantic current?
Yes.
Well...
I think it's happening.
- What do you mean?
- One of our NOMAD buoys...
registered a 13 degree drop
in surface temperature the other day.
- I sent you an e-mail.
- Hold on.
At first we thought
it was a malfunction...
but there are four more across
the North Atlantic showing the same thing.
JACK:
This is unbelievable.
You predicted
it would happen.
Yes, but not in our lifetime.
This is too fast.
There are no forecast models
remotely capable of plotting this scenario...
except yours.
My model is a reconstruction
of a prehistoric climate shift.
- It's not a forecast model.
- It's the closest thing we have.
Nothing like this
has every happened before.
At least not in
the last 10,000 years.
As I predicted yesterday, the swell
off Hurricane Noelani is incredible.
These waves are even bigger
than I imagined. Just take a look.
[RINGING]
Shouldn't you be monitoring
the weather or something?
This is L.A.
What weather?
- [MOTOR RUNNING, FAINT]
- Wait. What's that noise?
What noise?
[MOTOR RUNNING, LOUDER]
- [MOTOR STOPS]
- [PHONE RINGING]
[SIGHS]
Honey, I'll be right back.
WOMAN:
The coastguard has closed the beaches...
as waves have been too big
for even the most experienced of surfers.
- L.A. Weather Center.
- It's Tommy! I'm down at the beach!
I'm in the middle of something.
What do you need?
There... Ooh! Uh.
There's... There's hail the size of golf balls
coming down here!
- [TOMMY CONTINUES, INDISTINCT]
- MAN: Low pressure system moving along...
the California coastline is creating
a cyclonic system across the L.A. basin.
[PHONE RINGING]
- Yeah. Hello.
- Hey, boss, turn on the Weather Channel.
I think we have to issue
a tornado warning.
What are
you talking about?
WOMAN:
Palmdale and Lancaster are reporting...
- windspeeds in excess of 70 miles per hour...
- Hold on a second.
Conditions that are
highly unusual for California.
Tom, we're building a forecast model.
We're gonna need what?
Priority access to the mainframe
for two days, maybe three.
- Oh, is that it? Anything else?
- We need it immediately.
I would say that
you've lost your mind...
but you've been this way
for the past 20 years.
Tom,
this is important.
What is this forecast model you're building,
if you don't mind my asking?
TOM:
Janet Tokada, this is Jack Hall.
Janet's a, uh, hurricane
specialist with NASA.
Jack's a paleoclimatologist, and I have
absolutely no idea what he's up to.
Booker!
What's going on, here?
They just issued a tornado warning
in Los Angeles.
MAN: Breaking news,
as we prepare to go live to Los Angeles.
- Mixed reports...
- The report's just come in.
Some extreme weather
occurring in the area.
Okay, we're now going live
to our Fox affiliate in Los Angeles.
WOMAN: We have live coverage now
from our Fox 11 chopper.
- Are you there, Bart?
- Uh, yes, I'm here.
These tornadoes are forming
so fast... What?
BART:
Oh! Oh, my God! Lisa...
Are you getting this on camera? This tornado
just came and erased the Hollywood sign.
The Hollywood sign is gone.
It's just shredded.
- [WIND ROARING]
- [PEOPLE SCREAMING]
LISA: Bart, what can you see?
Is anyone hurt?
BART: I wouldn't be surprised. There
is so much damage down there.
And there are people
down there taking pictures!
Hey! What the hell
are you guys doing!
Go for cover! You can't stay here!
Get outta here!
What you're seeing are two actual tornadoes
striking Los Angeles International Airport.
Wait. Wait. It looks like they've joined
and formed one large tornado.
- Tommy!
- Oh, my God!
MAN: Urge all of our viewers
to stay away from the area.
- Jeff, where are you?
- I'm on, uh, Yucca and Vine.
I'm on my way in now.
Jeff, you're on TV!
You're right in the middle of it!
God. Oh, my God!
You gotta get
out of there, man!
Oh.
BART: That bus just got dropped
on top of that Porsche!
- [LINE BUSY TONE]
- Oh, my God. I hope no one was in that car!
WOMAN: And for our national audience
just joining us now...
we are going live
to downtown Los Angeles right now.
- Tommy?
- If you look over there behind me,
that's a tornado.
Yes! A twister
in Los Angeles.
It's one of the many tornadoes
that are destroying our city.
There's another one!
That's the Los Angeles skyline!
It's unbelievable! It's huge!
I've never seen anything like that!
[GASPING]
What's happening?
It-It-It looks like
some sort of huge...
horrific, terrifying nightmare,
only this is the real thing!
[RUMBLING STOPS]
[WIND HOWLING]
[CAR ALARMS BLARING]
Yes, I-I'm looking
at it right now.
- Yes, it is.
- What's happening, Raymond?
I'll call you back.
Mr. President.
Los Angeles has been
devastated by a series of tornadoes.
On top of that, the F.A.A. wants your approval
to suspend all air traffic.
What do you think
we should do?
Until we can figure out what's going on here,
I don't think we have much choice.
WOMAN: What you're seeing is what's
left of downtown Los Angeles.
Hey, man, I just got off the phone
with my mom.
Um, excuse me, you guys. I'm really sorry,
but we need to change the channel.
[CHATTERING]
WOMAN: The F.A.A. has grounded all
air traffic in the United States.
Unfortunately,
the order came too late...
for two planes that were brought down
by severe turbulence in the Midwest.
So much
for one in a billion.
[CHATTERING]
All right. All right.
Listen up, everybody.
Listen up, please. We've got a lot of work
to do and we don't have much time.
So, let's get started,
please. Vorsteen?
All our grid models
are worthless.
I don't think grid models
are gonna be a lot of help here.
The Canadians are reporting tremendous
circulation moving down from the Arctic.
In Siberia, there's a low pressure system
unlike anything we've seen...
and Australia just saw
the strongest typhoon ever recorded.
MAN: Hang on. Are you saying that
these things are interconnected?
BOOKER: We have to consider
the possibility.
The only force strong enough
to affect global weather is the sun.
- What's NASA have to say?
- We've already checked. Solar output is normal.
- What about the North Atlantic current?
- VORSTEEN: What about it?
I got a call last night from Professor Rapson
at the Hedland Center.
He thinks the current
has changed.
[MURMURING]
Come on, Jack.
How could that be?
The current depends upon
a delicate balance of salt and fresh water.
- We all know that.
- Yes.
But no one has
taken into account...
how much fresh water has been dumped
into the ocean because of melting polar ice.
I think we've hit
a critical desalinization point.
[MURMURING]
It would explain
what's driving this extreme weather.
Hedland had some pretty
convincing data.
They've asked me to feed it into my paleoclimate
model to track the next set of events.
Hold on, Jack. Are you suggesting these
weather anomalies are gonna continue?
Not just continue...
get worse.
I think we're on the verge
of a major climate shift.
[MURMURING]
Tom! What are you gonna tell
the administration?
What do you expect me
to tell them?
The government has to start making
long-term preparations now.
- Jack, all you have is a theory.
- Then give me the mainframe
and let me prove it!
No.
You have 48 hours.
- [SIGHS]
- Professor Hall.
- Yes?
- I think your theory may be correct.
Walk with me.
Just a few weeks ago, I monitored
the strongest hurricane on record.
The hail, the tornadoes...
it all fits.
Can the model you're working on
factor in storm scenarios?
- Oh, we haven't had the time.
- Maybe I can help.
- Welcome aboard.
- Thanks.
- Hi, I'm Jason.
- Hi.
Ow!
Do you have the results
of Peter's C. T. scan?
Yeah, the treatment
shrunk the tumor 20%.
- Is his eyesight better today?
- No. No change.
Hey, Peter.
How you doin' today?
- A little better.
- Good.
Let me listen here.
Can you read that?
No, but I remember
the story from the pictures.
- You do?
- My mother used to read it to me.
She must be very proud of you.
You've been such a brave, big boy.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
- Here you go.
- Thank you.
Jack, you've been working
for 24 hours straight...
- the only one who hasn't taken a break.
- [SIGHS]
Maybe I'll try
to shut my eyes for a while.
Call me when you
get the results.
- Frank, is he always so obsessive?
- TOGETHER: Yes.
- Does he ever lighten up?
- No.
- Not really.
How long have you been
working together?
Well, uh, Frank's been working with him
since the Stone Age.
I've only had to endure
two years of servitude.
Jack. Jack.
We got the results.
Six to eight months.
That can't be.
That time scale isn't in months.
It's in weeks.
MAN: Widespread flooding
has slowed transportation...
and caused numerous closures,
including the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels.
The plumbing in the school
is really old.
With all this rain,
the sewage got stopped up.
Where are you staying
tonight?
They're finding us a place to stay with kids
here in New York City.
Are you sure you can't get home
any sooner than tomorrow?
Well, look, Dad,
I would if I could, you know.
It's just, uh...
Ugh! This smell
is unbearable, Dad.
- Stop kidding around. I want you home.
- Dad, I'll be on the train.
Do me a favor, okay?
Just don't worry about me. I'll figure it out.
[SIGHS]
All right, son. I'll see ya tomorrow.
Hey, Sam. Guess what.
We got a place to stay.
Great.
So far, the terrible weather
hasn't hit the D.C. area...
but local residents
aren't taking any chances...
as people stock up
for what is already being billed...
as the worst storm season
on record.
You better be sure about this, Jack.
My ass is on the line.
- You saw the model.
- And I hope to God it's wrong.
- Oh. Mr. Vice President.
- Tom.
- You know Professor Hall.
- Yes, we've met.
Uh, Professor Hall has some new information
I think you should take a look at.
We just got these results
from our simulation model.
They explain what's causing
the severe weather.
I'll look at this later. I have a meeting
with the director of FEMA now.
This is very urgent, sir.
Our climate is changing violently.
It's going to happen
over the next six to eight weeks.
I thought you said this wouldn't happen
for another hundred years or so.
- I was wrong.
- Well, suppose you're wrong this time.
I wish that I were, but I'm sure that you're aware
of what's happening all around the world.
We're making all the necessary preparations
for this storm. What more do you expect?
You have to start thinking about large scale
evacuations right now...
especially in
the northern states.
- Evacuations?
- Yes.
Have you lost your mind, Hall?
I have to go.
Mr. Vice President, if we don't act now,
it's going to be too late.
Come on, Jack.
Hey, thanks for
bringing us here.
I couldn't let you leave New York
without seeing the Natural History Museum.
Of course not. It's the world's finest
collection of stuffed animals.
Hey, guys.
Check this out.
"The body of this mammoth was found
perfectly preserved in the Siberian tundra...
"with food still
in its mouth and stomach...
indicating that it froze
instantly while grazing."
MAN: It's been 24 hours now since
the snow started falling...
across the British Isles
and over northern Europe...
and it shows no signs
of letting up.
No. No, no, no.
You gotta stop worrying. No.
It's fine. We got plenty of supplies with us.
We're just snowed in.
Yeah. No, it's all right.
It's all right.
You stay where you are, okay?
I'll be fine.
Yeah, I love you too. Okay. Bye.
[SIGHS]
- Hey. How's Jeanette?
- Oh, fine.
- Ferry just landed.
- Must be nice in Spain. I wish I was there.
REPORTER: [TV] The search and rescue team
has been deployed by helicopter...
to airlift
the royal family to safety.
You think they'll come get us,
since we got snowed in?
Not likely.
Luckily,
we got our own genny...
enough tea and biscuits
to sink a ship.
Oh, we'll be fine.
As long as the loo doesn't back up again.
[ALL CHUCKLE]
In Ireland, those remaining in Belfast
and Banbridge have been urged to evacuate...
to Dublin as soon
as possible.
The north continues
to receive the worst of the storm...
[HELICOPTER APPROACHING]
MAN: We've got zero visibility.
Maintain heading and speed.
- MAN #2: What's our heading?
- Zero, three, five, sir.
Approximately 40 kilometers
from Balmoral Castle.
MAN:
We've lost visual contact with you.
This gauge here
can't be right.
MAN #3:
Wind speed has dropped to zero.
We have vertical walls
of cirrus cloud formations.
MAN:
What the hell is going on?
Bloody fuel lines
are starting to freeze!
[MEN SHOUTING]
Port engine pressure's dropping!
The rotor R.P.M. is dropping!
We've got a flame-out
on the starboard side as well!
Prepare
for crash landing!
Select emergency fuel!
Come on,
you bastard!
Come on!
[BREATHING HEAVILY]
RAPSON: What I'm about to tell you
is supposed to be confidential.
Several hours ago,
three helicopters went down over Scotland.
They crashed because the fuel
in their lines froze.
At what temperature does...
RAPSON: [ON SPEAKER] Negative 150 degrees
Fahrenheit. We had to look it up.
The temperature dropped
phenomenally fast.
On the ground, people froze before
they could get out of their cars.
- Get me a satellite picture
of Scotland two hours ago.
- Yeah.
We've got mountains of data but nowhere
near enough computer power to analyze it.
- Can you help us?
- Send us what you've got, and we'll do our best.
RAPSON:
Thanks, Jack. Bye for now.
This is Scotland at the time
the temperature dropped.
FRANK:
This thing looks just like a hurricane.
JANET:
Only hurricanes don't form overland.
- Good evening, sir.
- Hey, Harold.
- Thanks, Victor. I'll see you in the morning.
- Right, sir.
- Terrible weather.
- Tell me about it.
Wow.
You live here?
Just on the weekends.
It's my dad's place...
and he's kind of
never around, so...
Where is he?
Skiing in Europe
with my stepmom.
Is this you
and your brother?
Oh, yeah. That's when
we took a bike trip together.
It's been raining like this
for three days now.
[THUNDERCLAP]
[HORNS HONKING,
PEOPLE SHOUTING]
- I'm just standin' here.
- You can't stay here.
- I never liked this neighborhood anyway.
- [DOG BARKING]
It's a mob scene here
at Grand Central Station.
Over half the platforms
are flooded...
and service has been
suspended on all trains.
With planes still grounded
and trains now out of service, that's bad news...
Victor's coming to pick me up. Do you guys
want a ride to the train station?
- Stranded since this morning.
- Not anymore.
In Nova Scotia earlier, the ocean rose
by 25 feet in a matter of seconds.
What we have feared for the past few days
has indeed happened.
The cold front moving down
from the Arctic...
has created an enormous
storm system in Canada...
which, incredible as it sounds,
looks like a tropical hurricane.
I gotta go pick up my little brother.
Do you guys want a ride?
- Where is he?
- He's in a boarding school in Philadelphia.
If this system moves south,
we could see a wind-driven storm surge...
that could threaten
the entire Eastern Seaboard.
Okay. Bye. Victor's stuck
in traffic on Fifth Avenue.
It'll be easier to head out of town
if we meet him over there.
- All right.
- You mean walk? No, not in this.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
We should take
the stairs.
We're on the top floor.
I guess we're walkin'.
[THUNDERCLAP]
[HORNS HONKING,
PEOPLE SHOUTING]
- Maybe we should just stay here.
- I think the young lady is right, sir.
No. We need to get home.
Come on!
[SHOUTING CONTINUES]
[GOATS BLEATING]
[GROWLS]
Hey, Cesar, come here.
What are you doing?
The wolves!
They're gone!
MAN: [ON NEWS]
Just to give you an idea of the situation...
which seems to be becoming
worse with each passing minute...
at the moment, we have flooding
in most parts of the island.
We've got traffic snarl-ups
because the electricity is now out...
to almost every part
of Manhattan.
No traffic signals,
car accidents... at least 200...
and Lower Manhattan, we've been
told, is virtually inaccessible.
MAN:
No one is to be on the streets. Please go inside.
- [EXCITED CHATTERING]
- Sir, just calm down.
Public library's right up here. Make your way
up there. You can stay warm and dry.
[CHATTERING CONTINUES]
Sir, just take it easy.
Um, can you call Mom?
Please phone her for me.
- Hey.
- [BLUBBERING]
That dog can't come in here.
Come on, man.
It's pouring out there.
I don't care.
Read the sign.
It's supposed to be
a public library.
[EXCITED CHATTERING]
Come on, guys.
This way.
Excuse me.
Your bad.
Goddamn $ 1,500
waterproof raincoat!
Please shut up, man.
- There must be rats everywhere.
- That's 'cause it's New York.
Hey! Hey!
Open up, big poppa!
It's out of service.
It's out of service!
- No, no. I'll give you $ 100 to put it in service.
- You don't have to do that.
No, no. Really, $200.
I won't have it. I won't have it.
Oh, God, I love buses.
This is just so much fun.
- [SHOUTING]
- Hello?
I can't reach my driver.
I lost the signal.
This is insane. We should just go back
to your apartment.
BRIAN:
Yeah. I vote for that.
What? Are you kidding?
We have to get higher!
Come on.
Up to the library.
- MAN: Calm down!
- [SHOUTING IN FRENCH]
I can't understand
what you're saying.
- [SHOUTING CONTINUES]
- Just stay calm, ma'am. I will get you out.
[SCREAMS]
MAN:
The door is jammed!
- [SHOUTING CONTINUES]
- I don't speak French.
[SCREAMING]
[SHOUTING CONTINUES]
[THUNDERCLAP]
- Hey, where is Laura?
- [WOMAN SPEAKING FRENCH]
- She was just right there.
- She's right there! Right there! See?
What... What is she doing?
- Tell them to cover their eyes.
- [SPEAKING FRENCH]
- [FRENCH]
- [GRUNTS]
- [CHILD SCREAMS]
- [THUNDERCLAP]
MAN: [ON NEWS] There is a wall of water
coming towards New York City!
Everybody...
[SHOUTING, SCREAMING]
- [WOMAN SCREAMS]
- [SHOUTING CONTINUES]
- [SHOUTING IN FRENCH]
- What's the problem?
She left her bag in the cab.
Their passports.
OFFICER:
Forget about it!
- I'll get it for her.
- Come on!
Oh, my...
Laura!
- No! No!
- No, Sam! Sam, no!
- Laura! Laura! Laura! Come on!
- [GASPS]
Come! Come on!
- Sam!
- Go!
[DOG BARKING]
Professor.
Thank you.
[CHUCKLES]
Is that Neville's handiwork?
Neville's way beyond
stick figures. He's six already.
- Hmm.
- No. This masterpiece...
belongs to my second
grandson, David.
Can't believe
Neville's six already.
You won't believe
how fast they grow.
Professor, I've got
Jack Hall on the phone.
They've run the data
we've sent them.
Here he is.
Jack, were you able
to re-create the thermal cycle?
Yes. The storm's rotation is pulling super-cooled
air down from the upper troposphere.
But shouldn't the air warm up
before it reaches ground level?
It should, but it doesn't.
The air's descending too rapidly.
Is this
an isolated incident?
I'm afraid not.
We've located two other supercells
in addition to the one over Scotland.
There's one over Northern Canada
and another one over Siberia.
And do we know
their projected path?
Yes. Our previous estimates of six
to eight weeks weren't even close.
This one storm is going
to change the face of our planet.
Here's a projection
of 24 hours out.
This is 48 hours out.
Andin seven to 10 days.
When this storm is over,
we'll be in a new ice age.
My God.
Professor, it's time
you got out of there.
I'm afraid that time
has come and gone, my friend.
What can we do?
Save as many as you can.
[FEEDBACK ON LINE]
[DISCONNECT SIGNAL]
[PHONE RINGING]
Jack. Something's
happened in New York.
No. The power is out.
I've been in here all day.
- OFFICER: Who needs help?
- Over here. Over here.
- [INDISTINCT SHOUTING]
- Hi.
- MAN: Hello.
- [DOG WHIMPERING]
What?
This is the last one.
Enjoy it. Greedy.
OPERATOR:
All circuits are busy.
Listen. Thanks
for coming back for me.
It was really brave.
I guess I better
return her bag.
[SPEAKING FRENCH]
Sam? Just tell her
how you feel.
Yeah.
[DIALING PHONE]
Did you reach
your little brother yet?
No. There's still no service.
Damn cell phones.
- Excuse me.
- Yes?
- Are there any payphones on the upper floors?
- No. No.
- But there are some on the mezzanine.
- Great.
- But I think it's underwater.
- Where are you going?
- The power's out.
- Older pay phones draw their
power directly from the line.
[WOMAN ON P.A., INDISTINCT]
Oh, God. I've been trying
to reach Sam.
- So have I.
- I kept trying to call you,
but I couldn't get through.
It's been a madhouse
around here. Come on.
Are you sure about this?
Ah. Oh.
- [DIAL TONE]
- It works.
I love that picture.
Yeah. So do I.
- Where was that taken?
- Miami.
Well, where was I?
I don't remember that trip.
Sam and I went with my sister.
You were in Alaska,
doing research on your doctorate.
- [SIGHS]
- Remember what he was like
when he was that age?
[CHUCKLES]
Everything was "one more."
One more bedtime story.
One more ride on my shoulders.
"One more, Daddy."
Jack? Sam's on the phone.
Line four.
- Sam?
- Dad!
- Where are you? Are you all right?
- We're at the public library.
Sam, it's Mom.
I'm so happy you're okay.
Mom, can you call Laura and Brian's parents
and tell them we're all right?
Yes. Of course.
- Sam, what's that noise?
- Sam? Sam?
[GASPING]
What is going on out there, Dad?
Sam? Sam, listen to me.
Listen very carefully.
Forget what I said
about trying to head south.
It's too late for that.
The storm is just gonna get worse.
It's gonna turn into a massive blizzard
with an eye in the center, like a hurricane.
- Uh-huh.
- The air is gonna be so cold...
you could freeze to death
in seconds.
- Sam?
- What should we do?
Listen to me, son.
Do not go outside.
Just burn whatever you can
to stay warm and try to wait it out.
I will come for you.
Do you understand me? I will come for you.
[SHIVERING]
Sam! Sam, come back!
JACK:
Sam? Sam, did you hear me?
Did you hear me?
Sam?
[SOBBING]
Tell me he's gonna be okay.
He's gonna be all right. He's gonna be all right.
Do you understand me?
[SOBBING CONTINUES]
[GASPING]
[SHIVERING, PANTING]
[SOBBING]
I thought you drowned.
- Let's find some dry clothes for you.
- Yeah.
Where did you store
the arctic gear?
You can't make it
to New York, Jack.
I've walked that far
before in the snow.
This is not the same.
Jack, this is not the same!
Lucy, tell him.
I have to do this.
I know.
My hands are shaking.
Shaking.
That's okay. Here.
Here. Come here.
Wh-Wh-What are you doing?
I'm using my body heat
to warm you.
If we let the blood from your arms and legs
rush back to your heart too quickly...
your heart could fail.
Where... Where did you learn that?
[SHIVERING]
Some of us were actually
paying attention in health class.
How are you feeling?
Much better.
Frank told me about Sam.
I'm not gonna try
to talk you out of going...
but there's something
I need for you to do first.
You have to explain your results
to the administration.
- I already tried that.
- I know this time will be different.
You're gonna brief
the president directly.
OFFICER:
Is that the last of it?
- LAURA: Yeah. Pretty much.
- Okay.
We also found this radio,
but I don't think it works.
Let me see it.
[BARKING]
Buddha, be quiet!
You ain't even supposed
to be in here anyway.
- [BARKING CONTINUES]
- [LOUD RUMBLING]
[RUMBLING CONTINUES]
[BARKING CONTINUES]
Come on, guys.
Oh, my God.
[GLASS SHATTERING]
The basic rule of storms
is that they continue...
until the imbalance
that created them is corrected.
In this case, we're talking
about a global realignment.
The superstorm will
last seven to 10 days.
When it's over, ice and snow will cover
the entire Northern Hemisphere.
The ice and snow
will reflect sunlight.
The earth's atmosphere
will restabilize...
but with an average temperature
close to that of the last ice age.
What can we do about this?
[SIGHS]
Head as far south as possible.
That is not amusing,
Professor.
Where do you suggest
they go?
The farther south they go,
the safer they'll be.
Texas. Parts of Florida that aren't flooded.
Mexico would be best.
Mexico? Maybe you should stick to science
and leave policy to us.
Well, we tried that approach. You didn't
want to hear about the science...
when it could
have made a difference.
What exactly are you
proposing, Professor?
Evacuate everyone
south of that line.
What about the people
in the north?
I'm afraid
it's too late for them.
If they go outside,
the storm will kill them.
At this point...
their best chance
is to stay inside...
try to ride it out...
pray.
What do you think he'll do?
I don't know.
Jack, thanks.
And good luck.
You too.
We're all gonna need it.
We can't evacuate
half the country...
because one scientist
thinks the climate is shifting.
Every minute we delay
is costing lives.
What about the other
half of the country?
If Professor Hall is right, sending troops north
will create more victims.
We need to save the people
we can right now.
We take the same approach
in triage on the battlefield.
Sometimes it's necessary
to make difficult choices!
I don't accept that abandoning
half of the country is necessary.
Maybe if you would've listened
to him sooner, it wouldn't be.
Bullshit. It's easy for him to suggest this plan.
He's safely here in Washington.
His son is in Manhattan.
I just thought you should know that before
you start questioning his motives.
We're going to follow
Hall's plan.
- General.
- Sir.
Give the order for the National Guard
to evacuate the southern states.
Yes, sir.
[DOOR CLOSES]
Vivian, uh,
get me my wife.
[WIND HOWLING]
[GENERATOR CHUGGING]
Sorry, mates, but we're
just about out of petrol.
Hey, is there any chance...
that it will run... on this?
- [CHUCKLES]
- Are you mad?
That's a 12-year-old scotch.
[LAUGHS]
Gentlemen. To England.
To mankind.
To Manchester United.
[ALL LAUGHING]
I just... I just wish I could've seen him
grow up, you know?
The important thing is
he will grow up.
Amen.
Maybe you should have
somebody help you with that.
Sir, I am president
of the electronics club...
the math club
and the chess club.
Now, if there's a bigger nerd
in here, please point him out.
I'll just leave you alone
to work on it.
Come on, Buddha. Come on.
Do your business.
Look. There's nobody around.
- [BUDDHA WHIMPERING]
- Okay. You know what?
I'll turn around. I won't look.
- I promise.
- [BARKING]
- [BARKING CONTINUES]
- What?
Hey, man. There's people out there.
I was walking my dog.
There's hundreds of 'em.
They're walkin' on the snow.
[CHATTERING]
OFFICER:
Where are they all going?
They're gettin' out of the city
before it's too late.
All right, everybody.
Quiet down.
When was the last time
anyone got a signal on a cell phone?
I got through to my cousin in Memphis an hour
ago. They're being evacuated to the south.
We should get moving too.
The water's frozen over enough to walk on.
We should get going before
the snow gets too deep.
Everyone, wrap yourselves
up as fast as you can.
- We shouldn't go.
- We're leaving in five minutes.
- Why not, Sam?
- When I talked to my dad, he
told me we should stay inside.
- The storm will kill anybody caught in it.
- Then you have to say something.
I know.
- OFFICER: Line up. That's it.
- [CHATTERING]
Excuse me, sir.
You're making a mistake.
What? Hey, listen, son. We're all scared here,
but we got no choice.
- That's not it.
- Get ready to go.
If these people go outside,
they will freeze to death!
- Okay. What is this nonsense?
- It's not nonsense, all right?
Look. This storm
is gonna get worse...
and the people who are caught outside,
they will freeze to death.
- Where are you getting this information?
- My father's a climatologist.
- What are you suggesting we do?
- We stay inside, we keep warm,
and we wait it out.
The snow is getting
deeper by the minute.
- We'd be trapped here without food, supplies.
- It's a risk. Yeah.
- An unnecessary risk.
- No, no, no. It's not.
We've wasted enough time talking about this.
Come on, people. Let's go.
Look. Look. Look.
Just look for a second.
- Come on, everybody. Let's get going.
- One second.
The storm is gonna get bad.
It's gonna get really bad.
You're not gonna be able
to survive in it.
Believe me.
Sir, please just stay.
Just stay.
Just don't...
I'm...
[WIND HOWLING]
She's set to go.
Come on.
Straight to the back, guys.
JACK: [ON PHONE]
It'll be impossible to reach each other.
Leave a message for me
at the American Embassy in Mexico City.
Okay. I will.
I love you.
I love you, Jack.
Tell Sam I love him so much.
God be with you.
[LINE DISCONNECTS]
- Dr. Hall?
- Yeah.
We haven't been able
to reach Peter's parents.
- I'm gonna try later, okay?
- Okay. Thank you.
I got it.
You're supposed to be
on a bus heading south.
I've been watching
your back for 20 years.
You think I'd let you
go alone?
All these years, I thought
I was watching your back.
- Where are the keys?
- In the truck.
Where do you think
you're going?
Neither one of you
knows how to navigate worth a damn.
Without me, you'll
end up in Cleveland.
I'll try to give you updates on the storm
as it heads your way.
Good luck, Jack.
[ENGINE STARTS]
WOMAN REPORTING:
Breaking news from the U.S.-Mexico border.
Just half an hour ago,
Mexican officials closed the border...
in the light of so many U.S. refugees
who are fleeing south...
in the wake
of the approaching storm.
These people came here
in anticipation of crossing into Mexico.
Instead, they've been met
with closed gates...
MAN REPORTING: And now, in a dramatic
reversal of illegal immigration...
thousands of people
are crossing the Rio Grande into Mexico.
The scene that's unfolding here behind me
is one of desperation and frustration.
People have abandoned their
cars, grabbed their belongings...
and they are wading across
the river illegally into Mexico.
Here it is.
Oh, this fireplace probably hasn't been used
in about a hundred years.
All right.
- What are you doing?
- What do you think we were gonna burn?
- You can't burn books.
- No. Absolutely not!
You wanna freeze to death?
- I'll go get some more.
- I'll help you.
I'm going with them.
Okay. Do you have
a cafeteria or a lunchroom?
Just an employees' lounge
with a few vending machines.
[BUDDHA BARKING]
We're not gonna last very long
on M&M's and potato chips.
What about the garbage cans? There's always
somethin' to eat in the garbage.
[BUDDHA WHIMPERING]
Friedrich Nietzsche.
We cannot burn Friedrich Nietzsche.
He was the most important
thinker of the 19th century.
Oh, please. Nietzsche was a chauvinist pig
who was in love with his sister.
- He was not a chauvinist pig.
- But he was in love with his sister.
BRIAN:
Uh, excuse me. You guys?
Yeah. There's a whole section on tax law
down here that we can burn.
Afterhours of uncertainty, the traffic
is moving smoothly from the U.S. into Mexico.
This is only possible because the president
was able to negotiate a deal...
to forgive
all Latin American debt...
in exchange
for opening the border.
Now multitudes of American
families are feeling...
[QUIET READING]
- Lucy.
- [STOPS READING]
- Is Peter's ambulance here?
- No.
Why?
- They've all gone.
- What?
In the confusion...
I don't know what happened.
People just started
to panic, and they left.
Now, there's a policeman with a snowplow.
He's waiting outside.
Peter can't be moved
in anything but an ambulance.
I called and left a message for the county
ambulance service.
Okay.
You should go,
and I'll stay and wait.
Lucy, no. No.
You should go.
He's not gonna wait forever.
It's okay.
I'm sorry.
All right.
- [GASPS]
- Are you all right?
Yeah. I'm fine. I just
cut my leg the other day.
[RADIO STATIC]
Did you get a signal?
- Yeah. For a minute.
- And?
Man, this storm is everywhere.
It's hit the entire Northern Hemisphere.
Europe is buried
under 15 feet of snow.
And they say it's gonna
get just as bad here.
I mean, I don't think
your dad's gonna make it.
No. He'll make it.
He'll make it.
MAN: [ON NEWS]
The White House has ordered...
the following national disaster
alert for all northern states:
Continued exposure
to the approaching storm is deadly.
Remain indoors and take
all measures to stay warm...
burning any fuel sources
until the storm is over.
Roads are impassable
across New York State...
- and as far south as Pennsylvania.
- Where are we?
[MAN ON NEWS CONTINUES,
INDISTINCT]
Looks like we're
just north of Philadelphia.
MAN: [ON NEWS]
Rescue workers say they have no idea...
Look out!
You guys okay?
- Yeah.
- Once again, roads
across the northern states...
- Sorry, boss.
- Are impassable.
- Unpack the snowshoes.
We're walking from here.
Come on, men.
Let's get up and get going.
We've only made it to Brooklyn.
Maybe we should just turn back.
What for? Half the city's
frozen underwater.
- There's nothing to go back to.
- It's time to get up. Keep moving.
- We should've stayed in the library.
- Come on, men.
Okay, guys.
Let's get moving.
Wake up.
- What are you doing?
- Insulatin'.
Newspaper's best,
but this'll do it.
You know, you spend some years on
the streets, and you learn how to keep warm.
Hey.
Thanks.
I got one.
Your favorite vacation?
Besides this one?
[CHUCKLES]
All right.
I went to Greenland with my dad
on one of his research trips a few years ago...
and, uh, the ship broke down
and we got stuck.
And it rained constantly.
That sounds really boring.
It was actually really nice.
Just me and my dad
hanging out for 10 days.
[SIGHS]
[GRUNTING, SCREAMING]
[GROANING, WHIMPERING]
JACK:
Frank!
- Are you all right?
- I'm fine!
Just dropped in
to do a little shopping.
I gotta lose this sled.
Hold on!
We'll pull you up!
Jason! You gotta
support Frank's weight!
Okay! I'll try!
[GRUNTING]
Okay! I think
I have his weight now!
I'm coming to you!
[GLASS CRACKING]
[GRUNTING, WHIMPERING]
The glass is breaking!
Too much weight!
It's not gonna hold.
No! No!
Frank!
I can get you out!
JACK:
Don't do it!
- No! Frank! Don't!
- Frank, no!
Frank!
WOMAN:
What have you got there?
A Gutenberg Bible.
It was in
the rare books room.
You think
God's gonna save you?
No.
I don't believe in God.
You're holding on
to that bible pretty tight.
- I'm protecting it.
- [BOOK LANDS ON FIRE]
This bible is the first book
ever printed.
It represents...
the dawn
of the Age of Reason.
As far as I'm concerned, the written word
is mankind's greatest achievement.
- [SCOFFS QUIETLY]
- You can laugh.
But if Western civilization
is finished...
I'm gonna save at least
one little piece of it.
[RADIO: CHATTER]
We heard somebody
was left behind.
- [SIGHS]
- We brought an ambulance.
Thank God.
Thank you so much
for coming.
[SHIVERING]
[LAURA COUGHING]
Hey.
Hey, are you all right?
- You look like you have a fever or something.
- I'm fine.
I just can't sleep.
My mind keeps going over
all those worthless decathlon facts.
It's pretty stupid, huh?
No, it's all right. I guess you just haven't
had time to adjust yet.
How am I supposed
to adjust, Sam?
Everything
I've ever cared about...
everything I've worked for...
has all been preparation
for a future that no longer exists.
I know you always thought
I took the competition too seriously.
You were right.
It was all for nothing.
No... [SIGHS]
No, I just...
I just said that to
avoid admitting the truth.
The truth about what?
About why
I joined the team.
I joined it because of you.
Hey.
[RADIO: CHATTER, INDISTINCT]
Get this convoy
moving now.
[WHISPERING]
I know. I know.
- Mr. President.
- All right.
I'm sorry, sir.
We can't wait any longer.
We're the last ones.
All right.
PILOT:
Mexicali Control, this is Delta 2-6.
We're carrying an urgent message
for high command.
Request priority
on landing zone one.
- [CHATTERING, SHOUTING]
- [RADIO CHATTER CONTINUES, INDISTINCT]
Sir.
Thank you, Corporal.
Carry on.
Madam Secretary?
Raymond.
The president's motorcade
got caught in the storm.
They didn't make it.
She wouldn't
wake up this morning.
I-I... I mean, last night she only had a fever.
I don't understand.
God, she's awfully pale.
Well, guys, look. None of us has had anything
real to eat in days.
- JEREMY: I'm telling you, it's hypothermia.
- How could it be hypothermia?
- We've all been...
- Maybe it's just the flu, you guys.
No, no,
it's not the flu.
Yeah?
And how do you know?
Books can be good for something other
than burning. Let's go over her symptoms.
I told you. She has a fever
and a really cold sweat.
WOMAN:
How's her pulse?
It's really fast.
Did she have any injuries, like a cut
or something that might have gotten infected?
She was complaining
about a cut on her leg a few days ago.
I didn't... I didn't
think anything of it.
Oh, my gosh.
That's blood poisoning.
Um, septicemia.
She could go into septic shock.
I've seen that before.
That can get bad.
She needs a massive dose
of penicillin...
or a broad-spectrum
antibiotic immediately...
or...
Or what?
I've never seen anything like it.
There's no point of reference.
All I can see
is cloud cover.
What are you doing?
Taking infrared image
of thermal currents...
sent to Houston, Korolev...
your weather service.
PARKER:
I'll help you.
- Tom? Tom, wake up.
- [GROANS]
I just received some satellite images
from the space station.
You'd better take a look.
How big is this thing?
The vortex is 50 miles in diameter
and growing.
The two cells over Europe and Asia
are even bigger.
TOM:
Good God.
This one's gonna hit New York
inside an hour.
[GASPING, PANTING]
Jack...
Jason!
Are you all right?
[PANTING, GASPING]
[BARKING]
- What are you doing?
- There's gotta be medicine on that ship.
I thought you said
it was too dangerous to go outside.
I know I did.
Where'd you find
those chairs?
Why?
I'm going with you.
Me too.
[GASPS]
There!
- [LOCK RATTLING]
- Ohh! Come on!
Damn it!
- [GRUNTS LOUDLY]
- [GROWLING]
[GRUNTING CONTINUES]
[YELLS]
[PANTING]
- It's all in Russian. I...
- SAM: I know.
- H-H-Hey, guys, I found it.
- What? How do you know?
Because it says "penicillin"
on the bottom.
[GROWLING]
Wait. This is the mess hall. We should
find some food while we're here.
- We don't have time.
- None of us are gonna survive
without food, including Laura.
Okay.
[EXHALES, CLEARS THROAT]
J.D.:
Sam, over here!
What?
- Bingo.
- [LAUGHS]
[SAM LAUGHS]
[GLASS CLATTERING]
- [INFLATING LOUDLY]
- [YELLING]
SAM:
Brian?
- BRIAN: I'm okay.
- J.D.: I What happened?
Okay, okay. All I did
was open up a cupboard.
- [QUIET SNARLING]
- We can use it. Put food in it.
- [LOUD SNARL]
- [GASPS]
- [GROWLING]
- [PANICKED YELLING]
- [CONTINUES YELLING]
- [GRUNTING]
- Pull him in!
- [WOLF WHIMPERS]
- [WHIMPERING, GROWLING]
- You all right?
[J.D. GROANS]
My leg.
Here, use this.
[SHUDDERING, GROANING]
Oh, yeah. Here. Ohh!
It should be
over New York by now.
Satellite readings are showing
a temperature drop of 10 degrees per second.
SAM:
You guys, I think we're in the eye of it.
We gotta get back right now.
Look,
I'm gonna go outside...
and I'm gonna lure the wolves
out of the room.
- When they leave, you lock the door.
- Good luck.
- [CRUNCH]
- [GROWLING]
[YELLING]
Aah!
[GASPS]
[MUTTERING, GRUNTING]
[GROWLING, SNARLING]
Aah!
[PANTING, GASPING]
- [WOLF WHIMPERS]
- [PANTING]
[GROANS]
Brian, hurry!
[MUTTERING]
Come on! Hurry!
[SNARLING, GROWLING]
[GROANS, PANTING]
- [GROWLING CONTINUES]
- [BANGING ON DOOR]
Brian!
Brian, open the door!
We have to get out of here now.
Brian, get the supplies.
[GRUNTING, PANTING]
[ICE CRACKING]
Let's go!
Pull! Pull, Brian!
Come on! Pull!
Take the medicine to Laura!
[J.D. GROANING, YELLING]
- We're almost there, man! Come on! Aah!
- [GRUNTS]
Brian, close the door!
Don't let the fire
go out!
What's happening?
Buddha,
come away from the door!
Come, Buddha, come!
More books! More books!
How long
have I been out of it?
Couple hours.
How do you feel?
Okay.
What happened?
Well, we had to get inside in kind of a hurry,
so I sort of pushed you in.
I should be used to
you pushing me around.
Good to have you back.
What are you doing?
The eye of the storm
has passed...
and we're 40 miles
from Manhattan.
Shouldn't we wait
one more day?
Sam may not have
one more day.
What do you think's
gonna happen to us?
What do you mean?
I mean us.
Civilization.
Everybody.
Mankind survived
the last ice age.
We're certainly capable
of surviving this one.
All depends on whether or not we're able
to learn from our mistakes.
I sure as hell would like
a chance to learn from mine.
You did everything you could.
I was thinking about Sam.
Jack, you know
the chances of Sam...
I made my son a promise.
I'm going to keep it.
MAN: [ON RADIO]
Parker, this is Houston. Do you read?
Roger, Mission Control.
Go ahead.
We're getting scattered reports that the storm
is dissipating over North America.
Can you confirm?
PARKER:
Affirmative. It's finally clearing.
We're over Europe right now.
I can see landmass
for the first time in days.
How much further is it
to the library?
It should be...
right here.
I'm sorry, Jack.
Sam?
Who is that?
My father.
You made it.
Of course I did.
[CROWD SHOUTING]
[SHOUTING CONTINUES]
Mr. President.
I just received a shortwave radio
transmission from Jack Hall.
He made it to New York.
He says
there are survivors.
Thank you, Tom.
That's...
That's good news.
BECKER:
These past few weeks have left us all...
with a profound sense
of humility...
in the face of nature's
destructive power.
For years we operated
under the belief...
that we could continue consuming
our planet's natural resources...
without consequence.
We were wrong.
I was wrong.
The fact that my first address to you
comes from a consulate on foreign soil...
is a testament to
our changed reality.
Not only Americans...
but people
all around the globe...
are now guests in the nations
we once called the Third World.
In our time of need they have taken us in
and sheltered us...
and I am deeply grateful
for their hospitality.
BECKER CONTINUES: [TV]
We mourn the loss of a spirited leader...
- whose courageous orders
to evacuate to the south...
- Peter.
- Saved millions of lives.
- Hey. You feeling okay today?
For days now we have despaired about the fate
of the people who are trapped in the north.
Today there is
cause for hope.
Only a few hours ago
I received word...
that a small group of people
survived in New York City...
against all odds and in the face
of tremendous adversity.
I've ordered an immediate search-and-rescue
mission to bring them home...
and to look
for more survivors.
Jack!
It's good to see you!
Come on.
Let's go get on board.
Look at that.
What?
Have you ever seen the air
so clear?